Socat File Transfers
Continuing with the previous
fictional characters of Alice and Bob,
assume Alice needs to send Bob a
file called secret_passwords.txt.
Let’s see this in action.
On Alice’s side, we’ll share
the file on port 443.
Again, we use the TCP4-LISTEN option,
as well as fork
which creates a child process once
a connection is made to the listener.
Then we use the file option followed
by the name of the file to be transferred.
On Bob’s side, we’ll connect to
Alice’s computer and retrieve the file.
Once again, we are using
the TCP4 protocol option
and have specified Alice’s IP
address and listening port number.
We have also included the file option
which specifies the local file name on
Bob’s computer where the
file will be saved.
Great, our file was transferred correctly.